Islam in Europe, Muslims in Europe, Muslim Population in Europe
in this video we'll learn how Islam came
to Europe what is the present percentage
of Muslims in Europe and we will also
try to examine the common perception
that Islam is taking over Europe so keep
watching Europe is the world's second
smallest continent it is comprised of 50
countries 47 of which are united as the
Council of Europe 28 countries are in
the European Union which sets economic
and political laws for the region
one-third of the world's wealth is
located in Europe Europe is the world's
richest continent he the largest
religion in Europe as Christianity with
seventy six point two percent of
Europeans considering themselves
Christians including Catholic Eastern
Orthodox and various Protestant
denominations
according to the Pew foundation about 5%
of Europe's population is Muslim this
accounts for only 2.4 percent of all
Muslims worldwide
Islam entered Europe at three different
occasions
Islam first gained a foothold in
continental Europe in 711 with the
Umayyad conquest of hispania on the
Iberian Peninsula the Arab boom on
Caliphate became at the 8th century the
largest empire that ever existed in the
history spanning from Pakistan to
Portugal the spread of the Arabs on
Iberian Peninsula started on the early
8th century in 733 the Battle of Tours
allowed Charles Martel to block abd
al-rahman army the Arab territory in
southwestern Europe reduced to become a
more organized and stable state
al-andalus until the eviction of the
last mayor Rodell who left the Iberian
Peninsula in 1492 secondly the mongols
from the beginning of the 13th century
became a leading if not the dominant
force in the world particularly under
jenga's khan they were extremely
tolerant toward religion many of them
eventually converted to Islam
Muslim Golden Horde spread from Central
Asia to Eastern European plain from the
late 13th century to the beginning of
the 16th century even if they sacked and
destroyed numerous cities in Eastern
Europe the Christian kings of Hungary
Russia Crimea Lithuania were already
used to the mongol military tactics and
they regained many territories the
golden horde collapsed at the end of the
15th century the tatters are the last
legacy of this mongol entity in the
regions and Russian army often had to
control the tatters raids in
southwestern Russia until 18th century
the third time in Balkans and Anatolia
the spread of Islam came from the
ottoman
side the slowly feeling but still
powerful Byzantine Empire the Turks
slowly penetrated and surrounded the
Empire in the mid 14th century they had
already absorbed most of the southern
Balkans and also Anatolia current-day
Turkey the Ottoman Empire accustomed to
the Mongols and Arabs war strategies
became the most powerful state in Europe
and Middle East and crushed most of its
opponents in the mid 17th century the
Empire spread from Algeria to Iraq and
from Yemen to Hungary the Ottoman forces
reached and besieged Vienna in 1683 but
never conquered the city after that the
Empire slowly shrinked under the
European pressures and concentrated on
present-day Turkey after World War one
even though only 5% of the population of
Europe identifies as Muslim Islam is the
second largest religion in Europe the
second most popular religion is Islam
concentrated mainly in the Balkans and
Eastern Europe Bosnia and Herzegovina
Albania Kosovo Kazakhstan North Cyprus
Turkey asar by John North Caucasus and
the Volga Ural region more than 20
million Muslims live in the 28 countries
that form the European Union their share
of the population across Europe grew
from 4% in 1990 to 6% in 2010 according
to the Pew Research Center in 2030
Muslims are projected to make up 8% of
the continents population
7.5 percent France has the most Muslims
as a proportion of its population in all
of Western Europe that figure is
expected to increase to more than 10
percent by 2030
before proceeding further here are some
quick facts about Muslim population
living in Europe the Muslims share of
Europe's total population has been
increasing steadily Muslims are younger
than other Europeans Germany and France
have the largest Muslim populations
among European Union member countries
Muslims make up 5.8 percent of the
population in Germany 4.8% in Britain
and 3.7 percent in Italy by comparison
Muslims in the United States make up 1
percent of the population
now we try to find out the answer to the
question that is Islam taking over
Europe Islam is the fastest growing
major religion in Europe primarily due
to immigration since the 1960's
immigrants from Muslim countries started
to appear in numbers in Western Europe
especially in Germany France and Belgium
although large Muslim communities
existed on the continent long before
this especially in the Balkans this was
the first major wave of immigration of
Muslims to North Western Europe
Muslims in Europe are not a homogeneous
group they are various national ethnic
and racial identities the top countries
of origin of Muslims in Western Europe
are Pakistan turkey Morocco Algeria and
Tunisia Muslims also vary in terms of
their religious commitment some adhere
very strictly to the tenets of Islam
while others have largely assimilated
into secular European culture in Western
Europe Muslims generally live in major
urban areas often concentrated in poor
neighborhoods of large cities total
number of Muslims in 2017 in Europe is
about 50 million which comes out to be
6% the French capital of Paris and its
metropolitan area has the largest number
of Muslims out of any city in the
European Union London also has a
substantial community of Muslim origin
if the current rate of migration of
Muslims to Europe and the Muslim
fertility rate remains constant by 2030
people of Muslim faith or origin are
predicted to form about 10% of the
French population and 8% of the European
population looking at the data one can
say that number of Muslim population in
Europe is on the rise and it is mainly
due to two main reasons one Europeans
are taking lots of immigrants from
Muslim countries to unlike Europeans who
seem to be reluctant to have kids
Muslims for various reasons make lots of
babies and those babies who happen to be
Muslims are considered European because
they were born in those EU countries and
thus making the Muslim population of
those European countries grow
dramatically
in conclusion we can say that in general
you can never just look at a trend and
assume it will continue indefinitely
very many panics of the past have made
the mistake of assuming that you can at
the moment Muslim immigrants have a high
birthrate in Europe while the non-muslim
European population in most countries is
slowly shrinking because people aren't
having enough children to replace
themselves immigration from
predominantly Islamic countries is also
relatively high it is said that by 2050
there will be as many Muslims as there
are Christians in the world
thank you for watching till the end
please give your a comments on the
subject and don't forget to subscribe
our Channel